website/src/docs/uppy.md, before:

---
type: docs
order: 1
title: "Uppy"
permalink: docs/uppy/
---

Core module that orchistrated everything in Uppy, exposing `state`, `events` and `methods`.

## Options

```js
const uppy = Uppy({
  id: 'uppy',
  autoProceed: true,
  restrictions: {
    maxFileSize: false,
    maxNumberOfFiles: false,
    minNumberOfFiles: false,
    allowedFileTypes: false
  },
  meta: {},
  onBeforeFileAdded: (currentFile, files) => Promise.resolve(),
  onBeforeUpload: (files, done) => Promise.resolve(),
  locale: defaultLocale
})
```

### `id: 'uppy'`

A site-wide unique ID for the instance.
If multiple Uppy instances are being used, for example on two different pages, an `id` should be specified.
This allows Uppy to store information in `localStorage` without colliding with other Uppy instances.

Note that this ID should be persistent across page reloads and navigation—it shouldn't be a random number that's different every time Uppy is loaded.
For example, if one Uppy instance is used to upload user avatars, and another to add photos to a blog post, you might use:

```js
const avatarUploader = Uppy({ id: 'avatar' })
const photoUploader = Uppy({ id: 'post' })
```

### `autoProceed: true`

Starts upload automatically after the first file is selected.

### `restrictions: {}`

Optionally provide rules and conditions for which files can be selected.

**Parameters**

- `maxFileSize` *number*
- `maxNumberOfFiles` *number*
- `minNumberOfFiles` *number*
- `allowedFileTypes` *array* of wildcards or exact mime types, like `image/*`

### `meta: {}`

Metadata object, pass things like public keys, usernames, tags or whatever:

```js
meta: {
  username: 'John'
}
```

Can be altered with `uppy.setMeta({username: 'Peter'})` method.

### `onBeforeFileAdded: (currentFile, files) => Promise.resolve()`

A function run before a file is added to Uppy. Gets passed `(currentFile, files)` where `currentFile` is a file that is about to be added, and `files` is an object with all files that already are in Uppy. Return `Promise.resolve` to proceed with adding the file or `Promise.reject` to abort. Use this function to run any number of custom checks on the selected file, or manipulating it, like optimizing a file name, for example.

```js
onBeforeFileAdded: (currentFile, files) => {
  if (currentFile.name === 'pitercss-IMG_0616.jpg') {
    return Promise.resolve()
  }
  return Promise.reject('this is not the file I was looking for')
}
```

### `onBeforeUpload: (files, done) => Promise.resolve()`

A function run before an upload begins. Gets passed `files` object with all files that already are in Uppy. Return `Promise.resolve` to proceed with adding the file or `Promise.reject` to abort. Use this to check if all files or their total number match your requirements, or manipulate all the files at once before upload.

```js
onBeforeUpload: (files) => {
  if (Object.keys(files).length < 2) {
    return Promise.reject('too few files')
  }
  return Promise.resolve()
}
```

### `locale: {}`

Same deal as in plugins, this allows you to override language strings:

```js
locale: {
  strings: {
    youCanOnlyUploadX: {
      0: 'You can only upload %{smart_count} file',
      1: 'You can only upload %{smart_count} files'
    },
    youHaveToAtLeastSelectX: {
      0: 'You have to select at least %{smart_count} file',
      1: 'You have to select at least %{smart_count} files'
    },
    exceedsSize: 'This file exceeds maximum allowed size of',
    youCanOnlyUploadFileTypes: 'You can only upload:'
  }
}
```

As well as the pluralization function, which is used to determin which string will be used for the provided `smart_count` number.

For example, for Icelandic language the pluralization function will be:

``` js
locale: {
  pluralize: (n) => (n % 10 !== 1 || n % 100 === 11) ? 1 : 0
}
```

We are using a forked [Polyglot.js](https://github.com/airbnb/polyglot.js/blob/master/index.js#L37-L60).

## Methods

### `uppy.use(plugin, opts)`

Add a plugin to Uppy, with an optional plugin options object.

```js
const Uppy = require('uppy/lib/core')
const DragDrop = require('uppy/lib/plugins/DragDrop')

const uppy = Uppy()
uppy.use(DragDrop, {target: 'body'})
```

### `uppy.run()`

Initializes everything after setup. Must be called before calling `.upload()` or using Uppy in any meaningful way.

### `uppy.getID()`

Get the uppy instance ID, see the [`id` option](#id-39-uppy-39).

### `uppy.addFile(fileObject)`

Add a new file to Uppy’s internal state.

```js
uppy.addFile({
  name: 'my-file.jpg', // file name
  type: 'image/jpeg', // file type
  data: fileBlob, // file blob
  source: 'Local', // optional, sets what added the file, for example, Instagram
  isRemote: false // optional, set to true if actual file is not in the browser, but on some remote server, like when using uppy-server + Instagram, for example
})
```

`addFile` attemps to determine file type by [magic bytes](https://github.com/sindresorhus/file-type) + the provided `type` + extension; then checks if the file can be added, considering `uppy.opts.restrictions`, sets metadata and generates a preview, if it’s an image.

If `uppy.opts.autoProceed === true`, Uppy will begin uploading after the first file is added.

### `uppy.getFile(fileID)`

A shortcut method that returns a specific file object from `uppy.state` by its `fileID`.

```js
const file = uppy.getFile('uppyteamkongjpg1501851828779')
const img = document.createElement('img')
img.src = file.preview
document.body.appendChild(img)
```

### `uppy.setState(patch)`

Update `uppy.state`. Usually this method is called internally, but in some cases it might be useful to alter something in `uppy.state` directly.

Uppy’s default state on initialization:

```js
this.state = {
  files: {},
  capabilities: {
    resumableUploads: false
  },
  totalProgress: 0,
  meta: Object.assign({}, this.opts.meta)
}
```

Updating state:

```js
uppy.setState({
  smth: true
})
```

We don’t mutate `uppy.state`, so internally `setState` creates a new copy of state and replaces uppy.state with it. However, when updating values, it’s your responsibility to not mutate them, but instead create copies. See [Redux docs](http://redux.js.org/docs/recipes/UsingObjectSpreadOperator.html) for more info on this. Here’s an example from Uppy.Core that updates progress for a particular file in state:

```js
const updatedFiles = Object.assign({}, uppy.getState().files)
const updatedFile = Object.assign({}, updatedFiles[fileID],
  Object.assign({}, {
    progress: Object.assign({}, updatedFiles[fileID].progress, {
      bytesUploaded: data.bytesUploaded,
      bytesTotal: data.bytesTotal,
      percentage: Math.floor((data.bytesUploaded / data.bytesTotal * 100).toFixed(2))
    })
  }
))
updatedFiles[data.id] = updatedFile
uppy.setState({files: updatedFiles})
```

### `uppy.getState()`

Returns `uppy.state`, which you can also use directly.

### `uppy.setMeta(data)`

Alters global `meta` object is state, the one that can be set in Uppy options and gets merged with all newly added files.

```js
uppy.setMeta({resize: 1500})
```

### `uppy.updateMeta(data, fileID)`

Updated metadata for a specific file.

```js
uppy.updateMeta({resize: 1500}, 'myfileID')
```

### `uppy.reset()`

Stop all uploads in progress and clear file selection, set progress to 0. Basically, return things to the way they were before any user input.

### `uppy.close()`

Uninstall all plugins and close down this Uppy instance. Also runs `uppy.reset()` before uninstalling.

### `uppy.log(msgString)`

Logs stuff to console, only if `uppy.opts.debug` is set to true. Silent in production.

### `uppy.info()`

```js
this.info('Oh my, something good happened!', 'success', 5000)
```

#### Parameters

- **message** *string*
- **type** *string* `info`, `warning`, `success` or `error`
- **duration** *number* in milliseconds

### `uppy.upload()`

Start uploading selected files.

### `uppy.on('event', action)`

Subscribe to an uppy-event. See full list of events below.

## Events

Uppy exposes events that you can subscribe to in your app:

### `core:upload-progress`

Fired each time file upload progress is available, `data` object looks like this:

```javascript
data = {
  id: myimg12321323,
  bytesUploaded: 2323254,
  bytesTotal
}
```

```javascript
uppy.on('core:upload-progress', (data) => {
  console.log(data.id, data.bytesUploaded, data.bytesTotal)
})
```

### `core:upload-success`

Fired when single upload is complete.

``` javascript
uppy.on('core:upload-success', (fileId, url) => {
  console.log(url)
  var img = new Image()
  img.width = 300
  img.alt = fileId
  img.src = url
  document.body.appendChild(img)
})
```

### `core:success`

Fired when all uploads are complete.

``` javascript
uppy.on('core:success', (fileCount) => {
  console.log(fileCount)
})
```

Commit message:

docs: Update to use `{ successful, failed }` result objects

website/src/docs/uppy.md, after:

---
type: docs
order: 1
title: "Uppy"
permalink: docs/uppy/
---

Core module that orchistrated everything in Uppy, exposing `state`, `events` and `methods`.

## Options

```js
const uppy = Uppy({
  id: 'uppy',
  autoProceed: true,
  restrictions: {
    maxFileSize: false,
    maxNumberOfFiles: false,
    minNumberOfFiles: false,
    allowedFileTypes: false
  },
  meta: {},
  onBeforeFileAdded: (currentFile, files) => Promise.resolve(),
  onBeforeUpload: (files, done) => Promise.resolve(),
  locale: defaultLocale
})
```

### `id: 'uppy'`

A site-wide unique ID for the instance.
If multiple Uppy instances are being used, for example on two different pages, an `id` should be specified.
This allows Uppy to store information in `localStorage` without colliding with other Uppy instances.

Note that this ID should be persistent across page reloads and navigation—it shouldn't be a random number that's different every time Uppy is loaded.
For example, if one Uppy instance is used to upload user avatars, and another to add photos to a blog post, you might use:

```js
const avatarUploader = Uppy({ id: 'avatar' })
const photoUploader = Uppy({ id: 'post' })
```

### `autoProceed: true`

Starts upload automatically after the first file is selected.

### `restrictions: {}`

Optionally provide rules and conditions for which files can be selected.

**Parameters**

- `maxFileSize` *number*
- `maxNumberOfFiles` *number*
- `minNumberOfFiles` *number*
- `allowedFileTypes` *array* of wildcards or exact mime types, like `image/*`

### `meta: {}`

Metadata object, pass things like public keys, usernames, tags or whatever:

```js
meta: {
  username: 'John'
}
```

Can be altered with `uppy.setMeta({username: 'Peter'})` method.

### `onBeforeFileAdded: (currentFile, files) => Promise.resolve()`

A function run before a file is added to Uppy. Gets passed `(currentFile, files)` where `currentFile` is a file that is about to be added, and `files` is an object with all files that already are in Uppy. Return `Promise.resolve` to proceed with adding the file or `Promise.reject` to abort. Use this function to run any number of custom checks on the selected file, or manipulating it, like optimizing a file name, for example.

```js
onBeforeFileAdded: (currentFile, files) => {
  if (currentFile.name === 'pitercss-IMG_0616.jpg') {
    return Promise.resolve()
  }
  return Promise.reject('this is not the file I was looking for')
}
```

### `onBeforeUpload: (files, done) => Promise.resolve()`

A function run before an upload begins. Gets passed `files` object with all files that already are in Uppy. Return `Promise.resolve` to proceed with adding the file or `Promise.reject` to abort. Use this to check if all files or their total number match your requirements, or manipulate all the files at once before upload.

```js
onBeforeUpload: (files) => {
  if (Object.keys(files).length < 2) {
    return Promise.reject('too few files')
  }
  return Promise.resolve()
}
```

### `locale: {}`

Same deal as in plugins, this allows you to override language strings:

```js
locale: {
  strings: {
    youCanOnlyUploadX: {
      0: 'You can only upload %{smart_count} file',
      1: 'You can only upload %{smart_count} files'
    },
    youHaveToAtLeastSelectX: {
      0: 'You have to select at least %{smart_count} file',
      1: 'You have to select at least %{smart_count} files'
    },
    exceedsSize: 'This file exceeds maximum allowed size of',
    youCanOnlyUploadFileTypes: 'You can only upload:'
  }
}
```

As well as the pluralization function, which is used to determin which string will be used for the provided `smart_count` number.

For example, for Icelandic language the pluralization function will be:

``` js
locale: {
  pluralize: (n) => (n % 10 !== 1 || n % 100 === 11) ? 1 : 0
}
```

We are using a forked [Polyglot.js](https://github.com/airbnb/polyglot.js/blob/master/index.js#L37-L60).

## Methods

### `uppy.use(plugin, opts)`

Add a plugin to Uppy, with an optional plugin options object.

```js
const Uppy = require('uppy/lib/core')
const DragDrop = require('uppy/lib/plugins/DragDrop')

const uppy = Uppy()
uppy.use(DragDrop, {target: 'body'})
```

### `uppy.run()`

Initializes everything after setup. Must be called before calling `.upload()` or using Uppy in any meaningful way.

### `uppy.getID()`

Get the uppy instance ID, see the [`id` option](#id-39-uppy-39).

### `uppy.addFile(fileObject)`

Add a new file to Uppy’s internal state.

```js
uppy.addFile({
  name: 'my-file.jpg', // file name
  type: 'image/jpeg', // file type
  data: fileBlob, // file blob
  source: 'Local', // optional, sets what added the file, for example, Instagram
  isRemote: false // optional, set to true if actual file is not in the browser, but on some remote server, like when using uppy-server + Instagram, for example
})
```

`addFile` attemps to determine file type by [magic bytes](https://github.com/sindresorhus/file-type) + the provided `type` + extension; then checks if the file can be added, considering `uppy.opts.restrictions`, sets metadata and generates a preview, if it’s an image.

If `uppy.opts.autoProceed === true`, Uppy will begin uploading after the first file is added.

### `uppy.getFile(fileID)`

A shortcut method that returns a specific file object from `uppy.state` by its `fileID`.

```js
const file = uppy.getFile('uppyteamkongjpg1501851828779')
const img = document.createElement('img')
img.src = file.preview
document.body.appendChild(img)
```

### `uppy.setState(patch)`

Update `uppy.state`. Usually this method is called internally, but in some cases it might be useful to alter something in `uppy.state` directly.

Uppy’s default state on initialization:

```js
this.state = {
  files: {},
  capabilities: {
    resumableUploads: false
  },
  totalProgress: 0,
  meta: Object.assign({}, this.opts.meta)
}
```

Updating state:

```js
uppy.setState({
  smth: true
})
```

We don’t mutate `uppy.state`, so internally `setState` creates a new copy of state and replaces uppy.state with it. However, when updating values, it’s your responsibility to not mutate them, but instead create copies. See [Redux docs](http://redux.js.org/docs/recipes/UsingObjectSpreadOperator.html) for more info on this. Here’s an example from Uppy.Core that updates progress for a particular file in state:

```js
const updatedFiles = Object.assign({}, uppy.getState().files)
const updatedFile = Object.assign({}, updatedFiles[fileID],
  Object.assign({}, {
    progress: Object.assign({}, updatedFiles[fileID].progress, {
      bytesUploaded: data.bytesUploaded,
      bytesTotal: data.bytesTotal,
      percentage: Math.floor((data.bytesUploaded / data.bytesTotal * 100).toFixed(2))
    })
  }
))
updatedFiles[data.id] = updatedFile
uppy.setState({files: updatedFiles})
```

### `uppy.getState()`

Returns `uppy.state`, which you can also use directly.

### `uppy.setMeta(data)`

Alters global `meta` object is state, the one that can be set in Uppy options and gets merged with all newly added files.

```js
uppy.setMeta({resize: 1500})
```

### `uppy.updateMeta(data, fileID)`

Updated metadata for a specific file.

```js
uppy.updateMeta({resize: 1500}, 'myfileID')
```

### `uppy.reset()`

Stop all uploads in progress and clear file selection, set progress to 0. Basically, return things to the way they were before any user input.

### `uppy.close()`

Uninstall all plugins and close down this Uppy instance. Also runs `uppy.reset()` before uninstalling.

### `uppy.log(msgString)`

Logs stuff to console, only if `uppy.opts.debug` is set to true. Silent in production.

### `uppy.info()`

```js
this.info('Oh my, something good happened!', 'success', 5000)
```

#### Parameters

- **message** *string*
- **type** *string* `info`, `warning`, `success` or `error`
- **duration** *number* in milliseconds

### `uppy.upload()`

Start uploading selected files.

Returns a Promise `result` that resolves with an object containing two arrays of uploaded files.

 - `result.successful` - Files that were uploaded successfully.
 - `result.failed` - Files that did not upload successfully.
   These file objects will have a `.error` property describing what went wrong.

```js
uppy.upload().then((result) => {
  console.info('Successful uploads:', result.successful)

  if (result.failed.length > 0) {
    console.error('Errors:')
    result.failed.forEach((file) => {
      console.error(file.error)
    })
  }
})
```

### `uppy.on('event', action)`

Subscribe to an uppy-event. See full list of events below.

## Events

Uppy exposes events that you can subscribe to in your app:

### `core:upload-progress`

Fired each time file upload progress is available, `data` object looks like this:

```javascript
data = {
  id: myimg12321323,
  bytesUploaded: 2323254,
  bytesTotal
}
```

```javascript
uppy.on('core:upload-progress', (data) => {
  console.log(data.id, data.bytesUploaded, data.bytesTotal)
})
```

### `core:upload-success`

Fired when single upload is complete.

``` javascript
uppy.on('core:upload-success', (fileId, url) => {
  console.log(url)
  var img = new Image()
  img.width = 300
  img.alt = fileId
  img.src = url
  document.body.appendChild(img)
})
```

### `core:complete`

Fired when all uploads are complete.
The `result` parameter is an object with arrays of `successful` and `failed` files, just like in [`uppy.upload()`](#uppy-upload)'s return value.

``` javascript
uppy.on('core:complete', (result) => {
  console.log(result)
})
```
